# PerfCollector
Performance Collector Checker. This Powershell script has been designed with a main idea check the main topics that could impact in your database(s) performance. Could be possible to use for **Single Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Elastic Pool or Azure SQL Managed Instance**.
[Additional Information](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-support-blog/lesson-learned-195-performance-health-self-check-for-azure-sql/ba-p/3277878) In this [Video](https://youtu.be/vg6S4He0rxY) you could find out more information how to use this PowerShell Script.

- **Check if the statistics** 
  + If number of rows in the statistics is different of rows_sampled.
  + If we have more than 15 days that the statistics have been updated.

- **Check if we have any auto-tuning recomendations** 

- **Check if the statistics associated to any index is:** 
  + If number of rows in the statistics is different of rows_sampled.
  + If we have more than 15 days that the statistics have been updated.

- **Check if MAXDOP is 0** 

- **Check if we have an index with more than 50% fragmented** 
- **Check if we have missing indexes** 
- **Check if we have command execution timeout** 
- **Check top 10 of wait stats** 
- **Export all the results of Query Data Store to .bcp and .xml to be able to import in a consolidate database. It is very useful when you have multiple databases in Azure SQL Managed Instance or Elastic Database Pool.**
- **Obtain resource usage per database.**
- **Total amount of space and rows per schema and table name**

Basically we need to configure the parameters:

## Connectivity

- **$server** = "xxxxx.database.windows.net" // Azure SQL Server name
- **$user** = "xxxxxx" // User Name
- **$passwordSecure** = "xxxxxx" // Password
- **$Db** = "xxxxxx"      // Database Name, if you type the value ALL, all databases will be checked.
- **$Folder** = $true     // Folder where the log file will be generated with all the issues found.
- **DropExisting** =value 1 or 0, if the previous files located on Destinatio folder will be deleted every time that you execute the process.
- **ElasticDBPoolName**. PowerShell Script will check all the databases that are associated with this elastic database pool (only for Azure SQL Database).

## Outcome

- **PerfChecker.Log** = Contains all the issues found.
- **DbName_PerfCheckerWaitStats.csv** = Contains the information about the wait stats per database.
- **Every check done will save two files**
  + Extension **.Txt** that contains the report of the operation done. 
  + Extension **.task** that contains a possible mitigation about the issue found. 
  + For the extraction of query data store this PowerShell script will generated two additional files per QDS table:
    + Extension **.bcp** with the information exported.
    + Extension **.xml** with the structure of this .bcp file.  

# PerfCollectorAnalyzer
Performance Collector Analyzer. This Powershell script has been designed with a main idea to read the files generated by PerfCollector. This information will be save in an specific server and database, for further analysis
[Additional Information](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-support-blog/lesson-learned-224-hands-on-labs-checking-the-performance-with/ba-p/3574602) In this [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfnSdhk4Za0) you could find out more information how to use this PowerShell Script.

## Connectivity

- **$server** = "xxxxx.database.windows.net" // SQL Server name to save the data imported from the files.
- **$user** = "xxxxxx" // User Name
- **$passwordSecure** = "xxxxxx" // Password
- **$Db** = "xxxxxx"      // Database Name, suggested always to use an empty.
- **$Folder** = $true     // Folder where the log file are located. If this parameter is empty a new folder will ask.
- **GenerateTableFromXMLFormatFile.sql** //This file is neccesary to read the QDS file.

## Outcome

In the database created we are gone 
- **_CheckCommandTimeout.Txt** = Contains all information about command timeout ocurred for the databases.
- **_CheckFragmentationIndexes.Txt** = Contains all information about fragmented indexes per database.
- **_CheckIndexesStatistics.Txt** = Contains all information about statistics associated with indexes per database.
- **_CheckMissingIndexes.Txt** = Contains all information about missing indexes per database.
- **_CheckStatistics.Txt** = Contains all information about statistics per database.
- **_CheckTunningRecomendation.Txt** = Contains all information about tuning recomendations per database.
- **_ResourceUsage.Txt** = Contains all information about resources stats per database.
- **_TableSize.Txt** = Contains all information about tables sizes per table per database.
- **_xTotalxAcummulatedx_xQDSx_xyz** = Contains all information about Query Data Store accumulated per database.

Enjoy!
